Computer Security field is continuously experiencing tremendous growth because information technology has a higher influence on how we work, communicate, shop and enjoy entertainment. Online courses in Computer Security covers two main areas of specialization: First, network security, including protection of IT networks from hackers, data loss, identity theft, viruses and other types of malware attacks. The online program that prepares participants to explore this specifically includes lessons in the field of network security, cryptology (read: experts read code), operating system and application firewall strategy.
Data theft has often happened in cyberspace. Various techniques performed for melakukanny. In previous articles we have already implemented several methods or ways to do it and how to overcome them. There are many more concepts for data theft, including Sniffing. Let's look at both how to work this sniffing.


Indeed one might attack you most fear is the virus, but you need to know in addition to the virus there are some attacks / threats also need to watch especially on the internet. Threats / attacks that could happen to a computer is as follows:
         sniffing
Reading of data that is not its purpose is known as Sniff. Sniffer program that is used is the Network Monitor from Distinct Corporation. The program is a trial version 10 days old. In the TCP / IP communication or who uses a communication model seven layer OSI, a computer will send data to the address of the destination computer. In a LAN with a bus or star topology using hubs that can not be switched (the hub to broadcast), each computer in the network receive the data. The default is only a computer with an address corresponding to the address tujuanlah that will take the data. But at the moment snif, a computer with the address instead of the destination address to keep taking the data. With the sniffer, then attempt to perform cryptography in the database (in this case the user login and password) will be futile.
Sniffing if translated one of the methods of data theft by reading data packets or IP packets from a computer or pc attacker to a computer or PC that wants to attack. For more details, following the analogy, or sniffing change the Ethernet mode to listen to the entire package of data on networks that use the hub as a concentrator.


Sniffing technique is indeed quite powerful if we, as users want to be attacked or taken data. To overcome this, some tips that need to be done to avoid sniffing are:
1. Make modifications type of data transfer from Http be https
From the name alone we would have been able to guess why the https safer to use than Http. Can be said to be more secure https (secure) because of the nature of the authentication, data confidentiality until the data integrity can be guaranteed. The proof can be seen websites are already using https to transfer data between the client (user) and server (processor).
2. Using high-level encryption to make data transfer
Use encryption when transferring data is strongly recommended. Although hackers find data that we transfer but they can not read the data because the data is encrypted. It can be a separate security for data transfer. It is strongly recommended to use this encryption if you do not want your data be misused by others.
